.\" Note that this man page needs to be processed by a troff that recognizes
.\" the standard latin1 digraph escape sequences.  Recent versions of Groff
.\" have this capability.
.TH CLICRYPT 1 "OCTOBER 2001" Kiwi "Kiwi User Manual"
.\" We don't want hyphenation (it's too ugly)
.\" We also disable justification when using nroff
.\" Due to the way the -mandoc macro works, this needs to be placed
.\" after the .TH heading
.hy 0
.if n .na
.SH NAME
clicrypt \- generate a Kiwi cookie 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR clicrypt " [ " message " | " ip " ]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B clicrypt
generates, on the command line, one of the following Kiwi cookies:
.TP 2
*
A set of three Kiwi cookies, one with a short timeout, one with a medium
timeout, and one with a long timeout.
.TP
*
A Kiwi cookie containing a five-letter message.  
.TP
*
A Kiwi cookie with an IP address.
.PP

To display all three timeout cookies, simply run 
.B clicrypt
with no arguments.  The time stamp of the cookie generated is based on 
the current time returned by the
.B time(5)
system call.

To display the Kiwi cookie for a five-letter message, type in the five-letter
message as the first (and only) argument to Kiwi.  The message needs
to be precisely five letters long, and only consist of ASCII letters 
or the letters 
.BR \('A ", " \('E , 
.BR \('I ", " \('O ,  
.BR \('U ", or " 
.BR \(~N .
The message is case-insensitive\(emall letters are converted to 
lowercase before being converted in to a Kiwi cookie.

This is useful if one wises to generate a permanent email address for a 
mailing list or web signup form, where one can track who obtains the email 
address in question.

To generate a Kiwi cookie which contains the lower 28-bits of an IP address, 
have either the environmental variable REMOTE_ADDR contain a dotted 
decimal IP, or give 
.B clicrypt
a dotted-decimal IP as its first (and only) argument.  

In all cases the encrypted cookie is outputted to the standard output.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
$ ./clicrypt 
Cookie with short timeout: arokbkm
Cookie with medium timeout (Usenet cookie): vgvbz6f
Cookie with long timeout: fw43uf7
$ ./clicrypt hello
mqoihuj
$ ./clicrypt 127.0.0.1
bdvke67
.fi
.SH FILES
.IR .kiwirc :
The file determining the configuration of programs in the Kiwi suite.
.SH AUTHOR
Sam Trenholme <kiwi-zttfryb@koala.samiam.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR decode , 
.BR infilter ,
.BR wrapper ,
and the Kiwi HTML documentation
